This is the world's largest military.
An elaborate military parade showcasing
new weapons. Really a show of force for
China on the global stage.
>> Xi Jinping has made it a stated goal to
modernize China's military and turn it
into a fighting force capable of winning
wars.
>> But behind the choreography, it's
undergoing its most serious leadership
shakeup in decades.
During she's third term, 15 of the 79
generals promoted under him have either
gone missing or been investigated.
It's the biggest purge of China's
military personnel since the chaotic
Mahatong era ended in 1976.
Every time you think surely this is as
big as it can get and as high as it can
go, it does seem to just keep getting
bigger. He obviously wants to centralize
control even at the expense of having
people that he himself has personally
appointed removed from that party
structure. This is key as she nears a
potential fourth term that would stretch
his time in power to 20 years. The
global consequences will be farreaching
with tensions between the US and China
rising on many fronts. And then there's
this. A top US admiral says science
suggests China is sticking to its
ambitions to be ready to invade Taiwan
by 2027.
>> The competition between the United
States and China is the most dangerous
and the most impactful when it comes to
the militaries of these two countries.
Anything that changes the dynamic there
is inevitably going to change the way
the world works politically,
economically, technologically in big and
small ways.
So, what's behind these unprecedented
purges? And what could they mean for
China and the global stage?
[Music]
>> China's military is unlike any other in
the world. First, because of its
leadership.
While most military forces are
controlled by the state, the People's
Liberation Army or PLA is run by a
political party, the Chinese Communist
Party.
It's divided into four main forces.
There's the Army, the Air Force, the
Navy, and the Rocket Force, which
handles China's missiles. They're all
under the command of the central
military commission or CMC which in turn
is controlled by the central committee,
the highest level of authority within
the party. Both bodies are headed by
Shiin Ping. So the central military
commission is essentially the apex
military body in China. It is in charge
of commanding the military and it's also
a political body as well making sure
that the right sort of political thought
is running through the military. So
that's how it's run. But it's the scale
of the PLA that gives it such heft.
>> Relative to the militaries of other
global superpowers, China has on paper a
huge numerical advantage.
>> You can see that here. China has the
largest number of active military
personnel in the world by far.
>> But what they've struggled with
historically uh and what they're trying
to change now is the modernization
aspect of those forces. That's where
Xiinping comes in. Since taking power in
2012, she has more than doubled military
spending to $296
billion. She also established a goal of
modernizing the military forces by 2035
and making them worldclass by 2050.
>> Part of that has been investing in new
technologies.
>> It also involved restructuring the PLA
in a way that would better suit China's
global ambitions.
The PLA was created as a force to fight
and win the Chinese civil war. So mainly
a landbased army. That's not what China
needs today. China needs an air force.
It needs a navy. It needs nuclear
weapons. That's what Xiinping wanted to
transform the PLA into. The other thing
that he has done is excise parts of the
leadership that he feels or that had
been shown to be corrupt or disloyal to
the party. Which takes us to Xiinping's
unprecedented corruption crackdown.
Since she came into power, hundreds of
senior officials across all sectors of
the government have been taken down,
including in the military.
>> US intelligence revealing widespread
corruption is behind President Xi's
sweeping purge of China's military.
>> Our understanding is corruption was
rampant in the military. I mean, we've
had cases of people at the very top of
the military hierarchy being tried and
convicted of taking bribes to help
others secure promotions.
>> She has also seen how Putin got onto the
battlefield in Ukraine and discovered
that corruption had meant that a lot of
the equipment he thought he had wasn't
actually up to par. But at the same
time, corruption probes in China and in
the military have a history of being
political. This is evident when you take
a look at the officials she has removed
since taking power. During his first
term, three high-ranking security and
military officials were ousted. The
three of them had all been appointed by
Shei's predecessors and were associated
with his political rivals. But it's been
during Shei's third term where things
have escalated. In the summer of 2023,
there was an announcement that China was
going to investigate u corruption
involving equipment purchases going
right back to 2017. And then sort of
within weeks of that announcement, we
started to get reports that very senior
people from China's rocket force were
being hauled off, taken away, probed,
and essentially ousted from their roles.
During this period, 15 generals who had
been promoted under shei himself have
either gone missing or been
investigated. That's a major shift. None
of she's predecessors ever purged
generals they had personally appointed.
Among the most high-profile of them are
Liang Fu, Mia Hua, and Huawei Dong. All
three men were associates of Xi and sat
on the central military commission. Two
of these oustings have been confirmed
publicly.
>> Lee Shang Fu, now the shortest reigning
defense minister ever in China.
>> Meow is being suspended,
>> but little is known about the fate of
Hweong.
If China's political system is opaque
and hard to read, its military system is
even more murky. Often we're looking at
very sort of specific events for a sign.
It's sort of a game of like, you know,
an opposite of where's Wally. You're
trying to like look at who isn't there
when they should be. There are absences
that are noticed of senior party
officials and that is the first
indication that something is wrong.
That's what happened in April during a
routine tree planting ceremony with
China's most senior military leaders. As
the state media sort of camera scans
across the military leaders, then people
realize Hui Dong is not there. He was
one of the first people in over a decade
to not have to work his way up the
central military commission and then
within a very short space of time he's
gone and he was someone that was meant
to be a loyalist to Xi Jinping. If Hoe
Ton's ousting is confirmed, it would
mean that three of the members of the
CMC have been purged, leaving the
highest proportion of vacancies since
the Mao era. So why is this important?
Well, it all comes down to the thorny
issue of succession.
Xiinping's power doesn't come from his
role as president of the country. It
really comes from his position as
chairman of the Central Military
Commission. Whoever is chairman of the
military commission and also who is
maybe vice chairman tells you who is in
power and who is maybe coming up next.
In fact, both Xiinping and his
predecessor Huin Tao became vice chairs
of the CMC before rising to general
secretary.
She has now purged so many people from
the CMC that there are many vacancies on
that body and at some point he's going
to have to fill them. And so the people
that he does pick will be very closely
scrutinized because people are wondering
will any of them be the next leader of
China.
One of the things behind the purges is
to create a degree of loyalty to him as
the paramount leader of China. This
plays into his larger ambitions for
China and it's all part of the national
rejuvenation that he has talked about
since he's been in power. This includes
what he describes as the unification
with Taiwan and that is why the military
is so important as well.
>> Beijing has always endeavored to bring
Taiwan into the Chinese state peacefully
if it can, but would be willing to use
military force if it had to,
>> which finally takes us to how the purges
could impact China's military readiness.
>> A Chinese invasion of Taiwan would be
incredibly difficult. In theory, it
could go two ways. If you're removing
corrupt leadership, then it could
improve capability to carry out their
mission. On the other hand, if you
remove leaders who are popular, they
could hurt Royale.
>> So when Xiinping has to oust his
loyalists, what does that mean? Some
people will say it shows you how
powerful Xi Jinping is. But then there
are other people who will say it's not a
sign of power when the people that you
appoint in key positions in the military
you can't trust. This creates a degree
of paranoia because nobody really knows
whether they're in favor or out of
favor. And that ensures that Cinping
holds the power right where he wants it
in the palm of his hand.
[Music]